# Contemporary Issues In Data

# Data privacy is a human right yet most people do not have it
In this document, I discuss two articles about Data privacy in today's world and how although it should be a basic human right, most people do not have it. I present and discuss two opposing views on this important matter.

## Article 1
[Why Data Privacy Is A Human Right (And What Businesses Should Do About It)] https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescommunicationscouncil/2021/06/07/why-data-privacy-is-a-human-right-and-what-businesses-should-do-about-it/?sh=70bac224ec3c

This Forbes article talks about the increase in importance of data privacy as being a human right and the negative consequences for companies that do not follow it. The United Nations declared internet access a human right, and the writer, Philip argues that "if accessing the internet is a human right, then determining how we use the internet should be as well." This article highlights how many companies have previously been able to collect data without consent of users on the internet, but now this is changing as consumers become more aware of their rights and demand greater control over their data. 

Data privacy legislation is still inconsistent globally, with some countries allowing consumers to opt in and others requiring them to opt out. Companies that don't comply with data privacy laws risk fines, negative publicity, and loss of customer trust however unfortunately they are so integrated within our lives now that it is extremely difficult to cut them out. This article ends by advising companies to conduct a data audit, familiarize themselves with relevant privacy laws, and always keep their customers interests in mind.

## Article 2
[The New Rules of Data Privacy] https://hbr.org/2022/02/the-new-rules-of-data-privacy

This Harvard Business Review article by Hossein Rahnama and Alex Sandy Pentland talks about how the commercial use of personal data has been growing rapidly in the past two decades, but this trend is changing due to consumer mistrust, government action, and market competition. Unfortunately, despite being a human right, users do not have Data Privacy. Personal data is now considered as an asset that certain individuals collect and own and is then held in trust by companies and governments. However, moving forward companies must now reorganize their data operations to follow the new rules of consent, insight, and flow. The three forces driving this change are consumer mistrust, government action, and market competition. The end result will be individuals exercising full control over their personal data. Established companies will face new challenges in adapting to this new reality, and no matter how much is said to them they will always figure out a way to continue to extract data from its users as it is an integral part of their business. 

Regardless, to survive and suceed in this new data economy established companies will continue to face new challengesdue to tensions over customer data and a lack of clarity on how to integrate data into their businesses. To ethically succeed they must change the way they acquire, share, and profit from personal data. I believe that Companies must reorganize their data operations around the new fundamental rules of consent and insight for clear and transparent data policies, and to create a balance between protecting their customers privacy and using data for business purposes.